Today I'm going to be showing you guys
two different ways that we can run Cloud
Code for free. The first way is going to
be by running the LLM locally on our own
machine. And then the second way is
using Open Router. Both of these ways
are extremely easy, a lot easier than
you would think. And I'm going to walk
you through step by step both of them.
And my goal is to cover everything that
you need to know in order to run this
and answer any questions that you may
have. So let's not waste any time and
just get straight into the video. All
right. So before we get into the
tutorials of the two methods, there is
some important stuff that we need to
cover. The first one is about what
actually is Claude Code. And when I say
how do you use cloud code for free, what
does that mean? So this is the analogy
that any AI model would pretty much give
you and it is the fact that cloud code
is the car and the chat model, the AI
model is the engine. So when we use
cloud code natively, we are using
basically a harness that is wrapped
around opus or sonnet or one of claud's
models that's really really smart. So
cloud code tells the model how to
organize its folders and how to use
tools and how to you know execute plans
and build projects for you and stuff
like that. And by default we're using
opus sonnet and haiku. So when you're
thinking about your context limit or
when you're hitting your token limit
things like that that is because you're
paying anthropic for access to the claw
opus model or the sonnet model or the
haiku model. Now what I'm going to show
you guys how to do is we basically just
open up the hood and we switch out the
engine. So we can use the open router
models in their cloud which are free or
we can use self-hosted local models
which live on our desktops on our
laptops whatever it is and those are
also going to be free and that means you
don't run into any limits or at least
the way that the limits work are much
different. So now we understand that the
question is okay why can't you just run
opus locally for free? Well that is
because there's a difference between
open source models and closed source
models. An open source model basically
means that the model is published
somewhere so that anyone can download
it. It is open. It's it's open source.
We can see inside of it. We could edit
it. We could run it. We could modify it.
And a closed source model is closed. So
sonnet and GBT Gemini models those are
kind of the top tier leading closed
source models. And the only way that we
can access them is through the company's
API which means in order to hit their
API we have to pay them for tokens. So
if you think back to the car analogy,
when we have an open source model, that
means, you know, the car lets us open
the hood and we can actually like look
at the engine and change things. But
with a closed source model, the hood is
locked shut and we can't get in there
and we can't do anything to the engine.
So the question is, why are the majority
of the people in the world using closed
source models? That's because they're
typically just better. So here's a
chart. You can see in blue we have
closed source models. Up here we have
Opus 4.6 and Sonnet 4.6. And then in the
green we have open source models. So
this green one right here is a Quen
model. So what's really cool is there's
always been a gap between the
performance of closed source models and
the performance of open source models.
But that gap is just shrinking and
shrinking. And I'm sure we're going to
get to the point where they are just as
competitive as closed source models. And
by the way, this chart is based on SWE
bench verified scores, which is a you
know kind of computer engineering
programming sort of benchmark for AI
models. Now, what's really cool is if we
look at this, but we also overlay Sonnet
3.7 on top of this, we can see that
Sonnet 3.7 in the orange here is not
even in the top five, which means some
of the openweight models that we can
access today are better than Cloud
Sonnet 3.7. And if you remember when
that model dropped, everyone was
freaking out. It was the best model at
one point. So, just to put into
perspective that the open source models
are really good, but still right now, if
you want to do like heavy heavy work and
you've got something that you can't
really mess up on, then Opus 4.6 is
probably going to be the best. or maybe
GBT 5.4 with codecs. And because of
that, there's a few reasons why open
source models in cloud code might seem
to misbehave. They might have been not
trained on Claude Code's tools. They
might have a context window that's too
small for cloud system prompt, and they
might not follow the exact same JSON
protocol that Claude Code expects. So
once again, the car and the engine
analogy. It might be like trying to put
a motorcycle engine into a truck or
maybe putting the wrong type of gas into
your vehicle. So sometimes you do have
to play around with the models to see if
they can do the proper tool calling that
cloud code or your car actually expects.
And you know what inspired me to make
this video? It was the release of
Google's new open-source model Gemma 4.
And what's really cool to see is this is
a comparison of some other open source
models that are pretty good. On the
x-axis we have the size of these open
source models and on the y-axis we have
their ELO score. And what you can see is
that these Gemma 4 models are the
highest ELO score and the smallest size.
And in this context, a small size is
better because that means that we can
actually host it on our machine and our
machine can handle it because it's
basically like how many gigabytes is the
model, how many parameters does it have?
Um, you need more hardware in order to
run larger models. All right, so now you
should have a good understanding of open
source models, closed source models, and
how this is going to work. The final
thing is the question that people might
be asking. Is this against Anthropic's
terms of service? And the answer to that
is no. We're using their agent harness.
We're just plugging in a different local
model or open source model. So with all
that out of the way, let's get into our
first method, which is going to be
running a local model. We're going to be
using Olama, and then we're going to
hook that up into cloud code and see how
it works. All right. So step one here is
to go to ola.com. Now once you get here,
what you're going to do is you're going
to download and you're going to do it
for your operating system. So here on
Windows, I would download for Windows.
Once everything is downloaded, we're
going to have to pull in a model or
download a model. So you're going to
click on models up in the top left. And
now we just have to choose which model
do we actually want to pull in and
download. So if we go over to Open
Router, and we're not jumping to step
two yet or to method two yet, Open
Router just has this really cool way
where we can actually look at rankings
between different AI models. This page
can be very, very slow. There's a lot of
data here. So just keep that in mind.
But you can see that for programming
category, there's a lot of models here
that are open source. So right here, we
can see there's a Quen 3.6 that's pretty
good. There's a MIMO, there's a MiniAX.
So let's hop over to Olama and see what
we can do. So let's go ahead and choose
this Quen 3.5 model. If I open this up,
there's a few things that we can see.
And we can see all of these different
models. So these are different sizes. We
can also scroll down and we get some
highlights. So we can see like some
benchmarks that they have. And these
benchmarks will compare them to both
other open source but also some other
closed source models which is nice to be
able to look at. But what we're
concerned about right now is how we
actually download this. So you'll see
that we have different model names and
we have different sizes. We also have
different context windows and different
inputs. Now I'm not like a hardware
expert, but what you want to think about
is how much RAM you have on your
computer. There's some other things to
look at. You know, your CPU and your
GPU. If I was you, I would just go to
Cloud Code and say, "Hey, here are my
specs of my hardware. which model sizes
should I be looking to download? In this
case, what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go ahead and download this Quen 35 9
billion parameter model, which is 6.6
GB. Now, obviously, this is not going to
be the best model ever. This one would
be much better, but this is the demo.
So, I'm just going to show you how this
will work. So, what we need to do is
we're going to take this model name, and
you can see up here it says that you can
run
Quen 3.5. But what we need to do first
is download the model cuz this basically
just lets us talk to it. So, we're going
to do lama pull and then the model name.
Now, you could just open up your search
bar, search for terminal, and then do it
right there. But what I'm going to do is
I'm going to do this in the environment
where we're actually going to be using
this model in cloud code. So, in VS Code
where I like to use it, I'm going to
open up my terminal, and I'm just going
to go ahead and do that command. So, um
pull and then the model that I want to
pull. And when I hit enter, this is
going to pull in this uh model. So,
right now, it's actually downloading
this locally on my machine. The bigger
the model, the longer it will take to
download. And you can see over here on
the right, it kind of gives me this 1
minute 30 second estimation of how long
it'll take. And by the way, all of these
little indicators that you'll see next
to a model just tells you about it. So
this one has vision, tools, thinking.
You can also run it from the cloud, O
Lama's cloud. And then it has these
different sizes available. Whereas if we
go back to some other models, you can
see that some of them might only be
available in the cloud. Like Miniax
here, it has tools, it has thinking, but
it's only a cloud use. So you can see
here there's not nearly as many models
and we don't see the size because we
can't download them locally, at least
not from Olama, but we could still
launch them in cloud code, no problem,
and it would still be free. All right,
so now you can see that this model has
been pulled in. Now I can do Olama run
and then that same model name. And when
I do that, this is now me talking to
Quen 3.5 on my machine. So I can say hi.
It's going to think, it's going to
respond to me. And this is completely
free because the model is running right
down there on my desktop. Now, if I had
better specs, this would be faster. If
it was a bigger model, it would be
smarter. But that's kind of the way that
this works. All of this talking I'm
doing, all of this brainstorming, all of
this formatting of text I could be doing
is completely free. You can see this is
a pretty robust answer and and reasoning
process just for the word hi. But hey,
we got the job done. All right, so the
next step now, I'm gonna exit out of
that chat. Oops, it's control D, I
guess. Now, the next step is to open up
Cloud Code with our local model. So, if
I go back into the Olama here, and
actually I could just open up my app
that it should install. And if you click
on launch, you can see that there's this
command that says Olama launch Claude.
And if you do that, it'll just basically
pull up Claude. So, if I click on copy
and I go back into our VS Code where we
just were, and all the way at the
bottom, I paste that, it's going to
launch up Claude, but then it's going to
let you choose which model you want to
run Claude with. So, these are the three
Gemas that I had installed. Or I could
do the new one quen 3.5 9 billion
parameter. So now it's going to launch
cloud code. You can see that we are in
the same directory here. We are on this
model. It's API usage billing and this
should be free now. So I know some
people are going to ask about this,
right? So I just logged out of my
account and if I come in here and I
launch Claude as if I was doing it with
the Lama thing, it goes through this
onboarding. So I would choose dark mode
and then I have to choose how to sign
in. So I can either use a subscription
which is like 20 bucks a month and it
gets more expensive or you can use an
API key. So, if I open up that method,
it basically takes me to this place
where I have to authorize myself into my
Anthropic account. And then I do have to
buy $5 of credits just to get started.
But those $5 you'll never actually
consume because you're not going to pay
here. You're going to pay nothing
because you're using free open source
models instead. So, now that that
payment went through, you open up Cloud
Code and you can now use Cloud Code in
here because you have, you know, set up
that API connection. But the thing is if
you start talking to it right now like I
just said hey that would actually charge
my account. You can see the funds are
even too low so it won't charge you. But
this is where we would come in here and
we'd switch this account to using our
local model or our open source model and
then we'd be fine. So I'll even show you
here. I'll do Olama launchcloud. I will
choose the model that I want to use. So
it's saying that there's a conflict
because of the off. So I might have to
add the actual API key directly. But you
can see that this is hitting the miniax.
So, yes, I'm sorry you do have to pay
$5, but your usage ongoing is going to
be unlimited with these open source
models, but I just I had to address
that. Otherwise, I had a feeling that I
was going to get in trouble. So, if I
say, "Hey, Claude Code, what do you know
about me and my project?" I can shoot
that off. And this is now using Cloud
Code, using this harness, you looking at
my project and my skills and my agents,
but it is running through a model on my
desktop. But remember, this is going to
feel significantly slower than if you
were sending off this request to
Anthropics server. But at this point,
because everything's completely local,
it's completely private as well. And the
other thing you might notice is you
don't see in your actual chat the way
that it's calling tools the same way
that you do when you have a cloud model
in there. But yeah, I mean, this just
took 4 minutes to basically look at my
project and answer this question. Now,
keep in mind there's a ton of context in
here, a bunch of folders and files that
it basically just looked through. But
the other thing is we don't have
visibility into exactly what it actually
did because of the fact that it
basically just spins forever until it
responds rather than we getting to see
like each step that it's doing. So that
was a read tool. Let's just make sure
that it can actually do things. I'm
telling it to create a file at the root
level of this project and just call it
Quen 3.5. It misspelled Quen. Um and
then I said inside that file, write a
joke. So we'll see how long this takes
and we'll see if it can actually do sort
of like, you know, write and edit and
create actions. So there's a few things
going on here. The first thing is that
we didn't get full visibility when it
was creating the file because it's a
local model and it wasn't showing us
those tool calls. The second thing is
that it didn't seem to have state of
what was going on here. I think that was
because it exceeded the context window
limit because in Olama sometimes they by
default even though down here it might
say 200k not actually 200k. So back in
the terminal I'm going to run this which
is going to basically let us change how
much context is given to this model. And
we can see we have now created this. So
if I try to doma
launch claude, we should now see that we
have this different model which we made.
So Quen 3.59B
64,000 context. So if I open this one
up, we now should be able to launch
Claude. And this is a custom model that
we sort of configured off of the back
end of Quen 3.5. And by the way, the way
you get that command is just go to
Claude and say, "Hey, I'm pulling in a
model from Olama and I want to increase
the context window. can you help me run
these commands? And it's like literally
one command. The only context you might
need to give it is if you're using like
PowerShell or command prompt or what
your operating system is. Okay, this is
awesome. This time we were able to see
the actual tool call. So right here
called write, it wrote seven lines and
it put it right there. So if I scroll
down over here, we can see right here,
nice, we have that text file and it has
a joke. Why did the AI go to therapy?
Because it had too many tokens to
process and needed to talk it through.
Bonus, I asked the model if it's okay,
and it said, "I don't have feelings, but
my loss function is definitely in the
red." So, you can see how us giving Quen
a little bit more context was helpful.
Now, what if we wanted to do a model
from Olama that was in the cloud? So,
for example, let's say we wanted to use
Miniax M 2.7. What we would do is we
would just launch this command. So, we
don't have to run this or download it.
We would just copy this command. I'd go
back into my VS Code and I will paste
this in at the bottom down here. And
then when I run this, it's prompting me
to sign in at um.com. And now it's
saying that we need to connect our
device here. And now that that has been
connected, I can close this window. So
if I open back up over here, we can now
see that we have our cloud code running
and we have Miniax M2.7 on the cloud.
But because of the fact that you are not
running this locally anymore, you do
have a pricing barrier at some point.
So, when you're just getting started,
you can definitely play around with
those for a while and you will be able
to use them, but you do need to upgrade
at some point if you need to run more
than one model at a time and if you need
more usage. And then same thing with the
Macs. So, that's the thing that you have
to realize is that there's like there's
really no such thing as free because if
you want to run a really good model
locally, then you need the hardware to
support it. if you want to run it on the
cloud. You either have to pay for a
subscription like Olama or you could pay
for a VPS that's big enough in order to
host that model there. So, that's a
trade-off. Um, there's really no such
thing as free. You got to find the
balance between quality and price and
also thinking about like where are you
making your investment and are you going
to max out your usage or are you going
to pay per token? All these kind of
things. How can you optimize your
processes and also your price at the
same time? And we can now use this model
which is probably going to be much
faster and better than this previous one
up here with this local version of Quen
3.5 which was only 9 billion parameters.
So I'm asking it that same question
where I'm testing to see how quick and
how good it is at reading through
everything in here. And you can see that
came back way way quicker. So now I'm
going to ask it to do something else.
I'm going to see if it can run my
morning coffee skill. And look at this.
We can actually see that it is indeed
running the skill. and we get a little
bit more visibility because I'm assuming
that this miniax model is much much
bigger than 9 billion parameters. So the
point I'm trying to make here is if you
don't have hardware that can support
larger models then you probably want to
find a way to run larger models
somewhere else because this is just such
a better experience. This almost feels
like I'm actually using sonnet in cloud
code right here. I mean this literally
spun up four different local agents and
it's actually running pretty fast. The
only thing to think about here is this
is no longer 100% local because it is
now going to Ola's cloud which is why
you can understand now why it's such a
big deal that Google Gemma 4 is so much
smaller than all of the models that are
its same quality. All right, so before
we get on to the method number two which
is using open router, when would you
actually want to use these open source
models? There's a few different
scenarios that I want to talk through.
The first thing is if you have low
stakes or high volume tasks. So things
like reading and summarizing files
before passing context to a smarter
model or grepping through a codebase to
find relevant files and functions. So
doing some searches or generating
repetitive code scaffolding the things
where you really don't need the most top
tier model to be doing. We also have
things like research and information
gathering. So web searches, summarizing
emails, pulling docs, things like that.
Organizing and classifying things,
categorizing tasks, triaging emails,
organizing local files, or even your
CRM. And then if you want to go on like
the actual coding side, it can
definitely be some simple tests or maybe
improving some bugs or doing some
reviews. But I personally would just be
careful and then always make sure that
if you don't really know what's going
on, you would be checking later with a
more powerful model. Now, of course, the
other times when you might want to do
this is if Claude is down. So if you go
to status.cloud.com and you're having
issues with Opus or Sonnet, then maybe
you switch to a local model for a little
bit just so you don't feel unproductive
for the next 2 hours. Or of course, if
you just hit your session limit and you
have to wait another few hours, then
maybe open up your local version and
just play around with that. Okay, so
that was the local method. Now, let's
talk about running it through Open
Router. So, on Open Router's docs, they
even have an integration guide for
basically how this works. And all we
have to do is we just have to change a
few things in our environment variables
which override the default permissions.
So, we're basically just telling Cloud
Code, hey, instead of pointing to
Enthropics API, you're going to point to
Open Router, and I'm going to give you
this key, and then you're just going to
basically talk to these models instead
of Anthropics models. So, if you don't
have an Open Router account, go ahead
and go to open router.ai and sign up.
And what you're going to have to do is
in order to use these models, you are
going to have to load your account with
like $5 or $10. And then after you do
that, you're free to use all of these
free models and it won't actually eat
into that 10 bucks that you put into
Open Router. And basically the reason
why is because of rate limits. So if you
don't have anything on your account,
then you will get limited to 50 requests
per day with your free models. But if
you put $10 in, then you will get a,000
requests per day. And by the way, this
whole doc with all the setup information
will be attached in my free school
community. It's completely free. The
link for that is down in the
description. Claude code. And we
basically launch up Claude. We will see
that it says, "Okay, cool. We're using
Opus and we're using my Claude Max
plan." So we need to change this. And
the way we do that is in our project
settings. So in thecloud in the
settings.local.json,
you can see that this is what I have.
I've got some permissions and stuff like
that. I've got an environment variable,
but we need to add a few more
environment variables. All right, so I
switched into a different project just
so I could keep this clean. But I have
this other JSON file right here called
free router. So what I'm going to do is
I'm just going to take all of this and
copy it. And then I'm going to open up
Claude. And I'm just going to say,
hey, can you please add this
configuration to our
settings.local.json?
And I would go ahead and paste that
right in here. Now, in my case that my
API key is in there. So, just be aware
that if you do this, Enthropic is
reading that. But the reason I'm doing
this is because right after this video,
I'm just going to delete this anyways.
So, now let's talk about what this is
doing. So, the first thing is it's
pointing to open router instead of
anthropic. And then in the enthropic off
token, this is where you put your open
router API key. So, I know it says
enthropic, but this is where you put
your open router one. So, you'd go into
your open router account. you would go
over here to credits and then you're
going to go into your API keys section
and you're going to create a new key. So
give it a name, hit create and then when
it gives you that value, you're going to
copy that and then you're going to put
that into the configuration that I just
showed you right here, enthropic o token
and then the enthropic API key you're
going to leave completely blank. The
enthropic model and all of these other
models, you're going to put in a free
model from open router. Now the reason
you have to do all of them and not just
this one like the open router
documentation suggests is because if you
do it like that it's actually going to
by default call on anthropic paid models
for haiku and sonnet. So here in my logs
you can see I was testing this out and I
did the free configuration but then I
noticed in my logs I was kept getting
charged by by Haiku and I was very
confused because whenever it was doing
little tool calls or doing little file
searches it was using Haiku instead of
using the free models that I had
installed it to use. So if you were to
have just put in this configuration and
you would have left out these variables
down here then it would have by default
used sonnet or haiku for basically all
of these things and it would have
charged you without you even knowing.
So, make sure you put these ones in
there as well. And then you can see
after I figured that out, it was able to
use all of these for tool calls and
everything instead of using the paid
models. The only reason these were paid
is because I did that intentionally. But
yeah, this is what Open Router says. So,
just do it the way that I did it. So,
now that we have this set up, if I
actually open up a terminal and I type
in Claude, what do we see here? We see
that we are using Open Router free API
billing usage rather than using our max
plan or our team plan. So, what is Open
Router Free? Okay, well, this is very
similar to Olama. You've got all these
different models you can look at. When
you click on a model, it'll show you the
price per input tokens and the price per
output tokens. But what you can do is if
you come up here and you just search
free, you can see that there's a ton of
models right here available that are
free. And if you go down to the actual
open router one, which is right here,
the free models router, this one is
completely free, but it basically routes
you to whichever model is like the most
available at that moment. So it kind of
helps you from getting rate limited and
things like that. Now I'll show you how
this works, but I'm also going to show
you why I wouldn't recommend using this
because you just don't have any control
over what model is getting called. So
here I'm asking it to make a file in
this folder called open router test. You
can see that we are able to get the
visibility as far as what tools it's
using which is great. We have over here
the open router test file and there's
nothing in it but it did create that and
it didn't take that long either. And now
in my logs you can see this is what we
just did. April 3rd, 5:15th. It called
the open router free model three
different times and all of these times
costed us $0 as you can see. Now, let's
say instead I want to use this awesome
Quen 3.6 model with a million context
and completely free once again. Well,
what I would do is I would copy this
model name. So, Quen Quen 3.6 plus free.
Back in Cloud Code, I would just close
out of this terminal real quick. I'm
going to open up the settings.local.json
JSON and I will basically just come in
here and I will paste that new model
name into all of the instances where we
said open router free. And now after I
save this and I go ahead and open up a
new terminal and launch Claude, we
should see that we have in here this is
running now with that new Quen model.
And I can say hello and it should be
able to respond to us fairly quickly as
Quinn. There we go. Hey, what can I help
you with today? If I go back into my
logs and I refresh, we should see that
this most recent call will be with Quen.
There we go. Those two came through as
Quen. And you can see that once again,
it costed us nothing. So, let's see what
else we can do with our open source
models because if you remember, I talked
about some things where Anthropic has
trained its cloud models to act a
certain way with cloud code, but not the
all the other models have done that. So,
can you go ahead and search the web and
do some research on Google's new model,
Gemma 4? So what you'll notice when I
asked it to search the web, it's doing
web searches and it's knowing how to use
those tools, but it's running into an
issue where the current model seems to
not have web search access. So it's
trying a different approach where it's
basically just doing a fetch directly.
So what happened here is it tried to do
fetches and it looked like that worked,
but I guess maybe it didn't because it
said that it couldn't do any web
lookups, but it does have some
information about the um actual model
based on training data. So what that
means is you can still do web search
with tools like you know Brave search or
Perplexity or Tavali but it's a little
bit harder because it now might not
natively have the web search ability if
you need to like look up API
documentation or things like that. You
just might have to give it more
information manually or let it use more
perplexity credits or something like
that. So, just keep in mind you want to
be monitoring this kind of stuff because
you do have certain limits on your
account as far as how many calls you can
make to free models per day as well as
how many calls you can make to free
models every single minute. So,
something else you can keep in mind
though is the ones where you won't be
limited as much are models that are
really really cheap. So for example,
it's not going to work right now in
cloud code, but if you were using Gemma
4, 31 billion parameters, this is 14
cents per million input tokens and 40
cents on the output. And if I go ahead
and compare this with Opus 4.6, you can
see that the cost is just a fraction.
Down here, we have five bucks and 25 and
we have 14 cents and 40. So you could
very well just use this open router
combination with cloud code to basically
get yourself cloud code for like 50 to
100x cheaper rather than just being
completely free. And I think that's
still a huge win. So you understand
these two different methods of using
cloud code for free whether that is with
a local model or whether that's through
Lama Cloud or Open Router. But what's
still really important is managing
context and tokens because these open
source models don't have as big of a
context window as something like Opus
does with a million for the most part.
So, what you need to watch next is my 18
token management hacks, which I will tag
right up here. And hopefully I see you
guys over there. Appreciate making it to
the end of the video.